Upbound uxp (#1892)
DataDog/integrations-extras: upbound_uxp/README.md

# Agent Check: Upbound UXP

## Overview

> This check monitors [Upbound UXP](https://docs.upbound.io/uxp/).

Reviewer: Can you add a bit more context about what Upbound does, what kinds of metrics are submitted, and the value that the integration will bring to customers?

Author: Added overview information.

It looks for UXP and provider pods by default in the upbound-system Kubernetes
namespace. The Upbound and provider pods emit metrics at port 8080/metrics in
a Prometheus compatible format.

## Setup

### Prerequisites

> The DataDog agent requires permissions to discover UXP and provider pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Datadog agent requires permissions to discover UXP and provider pods.
```

Author: Updated casing.

> Create a service account, a cluster role, and a cluster role binding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a service account, a cluster role, and a cluster role binding
```

Author: Removed full stop.

to grant those permissions.

> Note, that the datadog agent in the configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the Datadog agent in the configuration
```

Author: Removed comma.

below resides in an arbitrary `monitoring` namespace.

> Your agent may reside in a namesapce of your choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your agent may reside in a namespace of your choice.
```

Author: Corrected typo.

# Agent Check: Upbound UXP

## Overview

Upbound provides a control plane framework for businesses
to accelerate their journey building custom clouds on top

> of arbitrary cloud resources. This increases the agility and
> reduces the cognitive load for their users. It can help enforcing
> governance and compliance and then enable better auditability
> because of the guard rails that their platform teams
> implement with the Universal Crossplane.
> Its merit is the velocity increase and risk reduction
> while keeping options open when building cloud platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of arbitrary cloud resources, making the process quicker, more flexible, and reducing cognitive load for users. With Upbound, users can reduce risk and make themselves audit-ready by enforcing governance and compliance with the Universal Crossplane.
```
Re-worded this section to cut it down a bit

Author: Updated.

Author: Updated dashboard descriptions.

Businesses may offer their own internal
cloud API to their teams through writing
composite resource definitions. Their
cloud can then map that API to downstream providers.
The providers create and lifecycle manage the external
cloud resources orchestrated through Universal
Crossplane when a user claims resources.
Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure and Google

> GCP are out of the box supported cloud providers.

Reviewer: Can you please re-word this from a customer's POV? i.e. customers can do xyz...

Author: Updated.

This Datadog integration facilitates the monitoring
of Universal Crossplane and provider Kubernetes pods.

> The value of observing the metrics is to be aware of
> the health of this self managed infrastructure provisioning
> and resource lifecycle management ecosystem to rest assured
> that the infrastructure is properly managed, or that actions
> may be needed to correct its configuration. The metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics are sent from Upbound to Datadog that track 
the health of this self-managed infrastructure provisioning
and resource lifecycle management ecosystem, including data on performance and resource consumption.
```

Author: Updated.

> inform about performance and resource consumption. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Updated.

> helps validating the Univeral Crossplane management cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This helps validating the Universal Crossplane management cluster
```

Author: Updated.

sizing and enables optimization.

The checks monitor [Upbound UXP](https://docs.upbound.io/uxp/)
related metrics.

> It looks for UXP and provider pods by default

Reviewer: Can you please move this into the same paragraph as line 36?

in the upbound-system Kubernetes
namespace. The Upbound and provider
pods emit metrics at port 8080/metrics in
a Prometheus compatible format.

## Setup

### Prerequisites

> The Datadog agent requires permissions to discover UXP and provider pods.

Reviewer: It would be helpful to provide instructions on how a user may create a service account/cluster role/cluster role binding in UXP.

Author: Referenced example.

Create a service account, a cluster role, and a cluster role binding
to grant those permissions.

> Note that the datadog agent in the configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the Datadog agent in the configuration
```

Author: Updated.

below resides in an arbitrary `monitoring` namespace.
Your agent may reside in a namespace of your choice.
Configure the service account and cluster role accordingly.

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: datadog-upbound
  namespace: monitoring
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: apiserver-cluster-role
  namespace: monitoring
rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - ""
    resources:
      - pods
    verbs: ["get", "list" ]
  - nonResourceURLs: ["/metrics"]
    verbs: ["get"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: apiserver-cluster-role-binding
subjects:
- namespace: monitoring
  kind: ServiceAccount
  name: datadog-upbound
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: apiserver-cluster-role
```

### Installation

To install the Upbound UXP check on your host:

1. Install the [developer toolkit]
(https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/integrations/new_check_howto/#developer-toolkit)
 on any machine.

2. Run `ddev release build upbound_uxp` to build the package.

> 3. [Download the Datadog Agent]["Datadog to supply the URL for the agent location"].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't think this step is necessary to call out

Author: Removed.

4. Upload the build artifact to any host with an Agent and
 run `datadog-agent integration install -w
 path/to/upbound_uxp/dist/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl` or copy the build artifact
 to an agent container, that may be running in Kubernetes with `kubectl cp
 path/to/upbound_uxp/dist/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl -n <MONITORING_NAMESPACE>
 <DATADOG_CONTAINER_NAME>:<PATH_TO_DIST_IN_CONTAINER>` and then install
 it with `kubectl -n <MONITORING_NAMESPACE> exec -it <DATADOG_CONTAINER_NAME>
 -- agent integration install -w -r

>  <PATH_TO_DIST_IN_CONTAINER>/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl`.

Reviewer: Can you please break this out into sub-bullets for each command?

Author: Structured into sub sections.

### Configuration

1. Edit the `upbound_uxp/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d` folder
at the root of your Agent's configuration directory to start
collecting your upbound_uxp performance data. See the
[sample upbound_uxp/conf.yaml](datadog_checks/upbound_uxp/data/conf.yaml.example)
for available configuration options.

2. Restart the Agent.

### Validation

[Run the Agent's status subcommand] and look for `upbound_uxp`
under the Checks section.

Run tests as follows.
```
DDEV_SKIP_GENERIC_TAGS_CHECK=True ddev test upbound_uxp
```

## Data Collected

### Metrics

> See [metadata.csv](metadata.csv) for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [metadata.csv][10] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.
```

Author: Updated.

### Service Checks

Upbound UXP does not include any service checks.

### Events

Upbound UXP does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog support][3].

[1]: **LINK_TO_INTEGRATION_SITE**
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/kubernetes/integrations/
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/upbound_uxp/datadog_checks/upbound_uxp/data/conf.yaml.example
[5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
[6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#agent-status-and-information
[7]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/upbound_uxp/metadata.csv
[8]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/upbound_uxp/assets/service_checks.json

> [9]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[9]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/
[10]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/upbound_uxp/metadata.csv
```

Author: Updated.

Universal Crossplane users can offer
their own internal cloud API to their teams through
composite resource definitions. Their
custom cloud service can then map that API to downstream providers.
The providers create and manage the lifecycle of the external
cloud resources orchestrated through Universal
Crossplane when a user claims resources.
Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google
GCP are out of the box supported cloud providers.

This Datadog integration facilitates the monitoring
of Universal Crossplane and provider Kubernetes pods.
Metrics are sent from Upbound's pods in the self hosted
customer environment to the customer's Datadog account.
They track the health of this self-managed
infrastructure provisioning and resource lifecycle
management ecosystem.  The metrics inform about performance
and resource consumption. This helps validate Universal Crossplane
management cluster sizing and enables optimization.

This check looks for UXP and provider pods by default
in the upbound-system Kubernetes
namespace. The Upbound and provider

> pods emit metrics at port 8080/metrics in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pods expose metrics on the `/metrics` URL from port `8080` in
```

Author: Updated.

  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: apiserver-cluster-role
```

### Installation

To install the Upbound UXP check on your host:

1. Install the [developer toolkit][11] on any machine.

2. Run `ddev release build upbound_uxp` to build the package.

3. Upload the build artifact to any host with an Agent and run
```
datadog-agent integration install
  -w path/to/upbound_uxp/dist/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl
```

OR

Copy the build artifact to an agent container
that may be running in Kubernetes with the following command.
```
kubectl -n <MONITORING_NAMESPACE>
  cp path/to/upbound_uxp/dist/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl
     <DATADOG_CONTAINER_NAME>:<PATH_TO_DIST_IN_CONTAINER>
```

4. Install it with
```
kubectl -n <MONITORING_NAMESPACE> exec
  -it <DATADOG_CONTAINER_NAME>
  -- agent integration install -w -r
     <PATH_TO_DIST_IN_CONTAINER>/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl`
```

### Configuration

1. Edit the `upbound_uxp/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d` folder
at the root of your Agent's configuration directory to start
collecting your upbound_uxp performance data. See the
[sample upbound_uxp/conf.yaml][4]
for available configuration options.

2. Restart the Agent.

### Validation

> [Run the Agent's status subcommand] and look for `upbound_uxp`

Reviewer: I think the command is missing here

Author: Updated.

# Agent Check: Upbound UXP

## Overview

Upbound provides a control plane framework for businesses
to accelerate their journey building custom clouds on top
of arbitrary cloud resources, making the process quicker, more flexible, and reducing cognitive load for users. With Upbound, users can reduce risk and make themselves audit-ready by enforcing governance and compliance with the Universal Crossplane.

> Universal Crossplane users and customers can offer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Universal Crossplane users can offer
```

> their own internal cloud API to their teams through writing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
their own internal cloud API to their teams through
```

composite resource definitions. Their
custom cloud service can then map that API to downstream providers.
The providers create and manage the lifecycle of the external
cloud resources orchestrated through Universal
Crossplane when a user claims resources.

> Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure and Google

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google
```

Author: Updated.

GCP are out of the box supported cloud providers.

This Datadog integration facilitates the monitoring
of Universal Crossplane and provider Kubernetes pods.
Metrics are sent from Upbound's pods in the self hosted
customer environment to the customer's Datadog account.

> They that track the health of this self-managed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They track the health of this self-managed
```

Author: Updated.

infrastructure provisioning and resource lifecycle
management ecosystem, including data on performance

> and resource consumption.

Reviewer: nit: This sentence is a bit long/awkward, can you please cut it down?

Author: Shortened.

> and resource consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and resource consumption. This helps validate Universal Crossplane
management cluster sizing and enables optimization.
```

Author: Updated.

> The metrics inform about performance and resource
> consumption. This helps validating the Universal Crossplane
> management cluster sizing and enables optimization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
The first sentence here is repetitive, moving the second sentence up earlier

> The checks monitor [Upbound UXP](https://docs.upbound.io/uxp/)
> related metrics. It looks for UXP and provider pods by default
> in the upbound-system Kubernetes
> namespace. The Upbound and provider
> pods emit metrics at port 8080/metrics in
> a Prometheus compatible format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This check looks for UXP and provider pods by default
in the upbound-system Kubernetes
namespace. The Upbound and provider
pods emit metrics at port 8080/metrics in
a Prometheus compatible format.
```

Reviewer: Bumping this comment to the top

Author: Updated.

The Datadog agent requires permissions to discover UXP and provider pods.
Create a service account, a cluster role, and a cluster role binding
to grant those permissions following the example below.

Note that the Datadog agent in the configuration
below resides in an arbitrary `monitoring` namespace.
Your agent may reside in a namespace of your choice.
Configure the service account and cluster role accordingly.

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: datadog-upbound
  namespace: monitoring
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: apiserver-cluster-role
  namespace: monitoring
rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - ""
    resources:
      - pods
    verbs: ["get", "list" ]
  - nonResourceURLs: ["/metrics"]
    verbs: ["get"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: apiserver-cluster-role-binding
subjects:
- namespace: monitoring
  kind: ServiceAccount
  name: datadog-upbound
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: apiserver-cluster-role
```

### Installation

To install the Upbound UXP check on your host:

1. Install the [developer toolkit]

> (https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/integrations/new_check_howto/#developer-toolkit) on any machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[11] on any machine.
```
added new link below

Author: Updated.

2. Run `ddev release build upbound_uxp` to build the package.

3. Upload the build artifact to any host with an Agent and run
```
datadog-agent integration install
  -w path/to/upbound_uxp/dist/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl
```

OR

> Copy the build artifact to an agent container,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the build artifact to an agent container
```

Reviewer: Bumping this as well

Author: Updated.

> that may be running in Kubernetes with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that may be running in Kubernetes with the following command:
```

Reviewer: And last one

that may be running in Kubernetes with the following command.
```
kubectl -n <MONITORING_NAMESPACE>
  cp path/to/upbound_uxp/dist/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl
     <DATADOG_CONTAINER_NAME>:<PATH_TO_DIST_IN_CONTAINER>
```

4. Install it with
```
kubectl -n <MONITORING_NAMESPACE> exec
  -it <DATADOG_CONTAINER_NAME>
  -- agent integration install -w -r
     <PATH_TO_DIST_IN_CONTAINER>/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl`
```

### Configuration

1. Edit the `upbound_uxp/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d` folder
at the root of your Agent's configuration directory to start
collecting your upbound_uxp performance data. See the

> [sample upbound_uxp/conf.yaml](datadog_checks/upbound_uxp/data/conf.yaml.example)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[sample upbound_uxp/conf.yaml][4]
```

Author: Updated

2. Restart the Agent.

### Validation

[Run the Agent's status subcommand] and look for `upbound_uxp`
under the Checks section.

> Run tests as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run tests as follows:
```

Author: Updated.

Run tests as follows.
```
DDEV_SKIP_GENERIC_TAGS_CHECK=True ddev test upbound_uxp
```

## Data Collected

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][10] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

### Service Checks

Upbound UXP does not include any service checks.

### Events

Upbound UXP does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog support][3].

[1]: **LINK_TO_INTEGRATION_SITE**
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/kubernetes/integrations/
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/upbound_uxp/datadog_checks/upbound_uxp/data/conf.yaml.example
[5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
[6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#agent-status-and-information
[7]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/upbound_uxp/metadata.csv
[8]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/upbound_uxp/assets/service_checks.json
[9]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/

> [10]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/upbound_uxp/metadata.csv

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[10]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/upbound_uxp/metadata.csv
[11]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/integrations/new_check_howto/#developer-toolkit
```

Author: Updated

Metrics are sent from Upbound's pods in the self hosted
customer environment to the customer's Datadog account.
They track the health of this self-managed
infrastructure provisioning and resource lifecycle
management ecosystem.  The metrics inform about performance
and resource consumption. This helps validate Universal Crossplane
management cluster sizing and enables optimization.

This check looks for UXP and provider pods by default
in the upbound-system Kubernetes
namespace. The Upbound and provider
pods expose metrics on the `/metrics` URL from port `8080` in
a Prometheus compatible format.

## Setup

### Prerequisites

The Datadog agent requires permissions to discover UXP and provider pods.
Create a service account, a cluster role, and a cluster role binding
to grant those permissions following the example below.

Note that the Datadog agent in the configuration
below resides in an arbitrary `monitoring` namespace.
Your agent may reside in a namespace of your choice.
Configure the service account and cluster role accordingly.

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: datadog-upbound
  namespace: monitoring

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ---
```

Author: Spaces added.

apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: apiserver-cluster-role
  namespace: monitoring
rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - ""
    resources:
      - pods
    verbs: ["get", "list" ]
  - nonResourceURLs: ["/metrics"]
    verbs: ["get"]

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ---
```

Author: Space added.
